# Emergency-Medical-Services-Requester
This is a project for CS360 at LUMS.
EMS-R is a mobile based android application which is developed by Group-22 students as part of their final project in course CS-360 using React-Native. This application connects its users(LUMS students) termed as Requesters directly with LUMS Emergency Medical Services(EMS)  medical first responders termed as EMS-Members. The application uses the firebase-a realtime database to connect Requesters with EMS-members. In case of any Injury, Responders can generate a request through the application after adding details regarding the injury, which is accepted by any EMS-Member. The application automatically determines Responder's current location and attach it with the generated request using Google map API. Once the request is generated, a push notification is sent to all EMS-members regarding request through realtime-database. The Requester's location and entered details are visible to the EMS-member who accepts the request. Once an EMS-member accepts the request, the request is no longer visible to other EMS-members, and a record of the generated request is saved  in the database. The details of EMS-Member are visible to the Requester, who generated the request. The Requester can also manipulate the location by moving the pin inside the application before generating a request. The application allows EMS administrators termed as Administrator to view details of all the generated requests. The administrator can add and remove EMS-Members and other Administrators from the application.
